# Cat-vs-Dog-pytorch
We trained a model to classify cat and dog using pytorch
Most of the pretrained models require the input to be 224x224 images. Also, we'll need to match the normalization used when the models were trained. Each color channel was normalized separately, the means are `[0.485, 0.456, 0.406]` and the standard deviations are `[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]`.
We can load in a model such as [DenseNet](http://pytorch.org/docs/0.3.0/torchvision/models.html#id5). Let's print out the model architecture so we can see what's going on.
With our model built, we need to train the classifier. However, now we're using a **really deep** neural network. If you try to train this on a CPU like normal, it will take a long, long time. Instead, we're going to use the GPU to do the calculations. The linear algebra computations are done in parallel on the GPU leading to 100x increased training speeds. It's also possible to train on multiple GPUs, further decreasing training time.

PyTorch, along with pretty much every other deep learning framework, uses [CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-zone) to efficiently compute the forward and backwards passes on the GPU. In PyTorch, you move your model parameters and other tensors to the GPU memory using `model.to('cuda')`. You can move them back from the GPU with `model.to('cpu')` which you'll commonly do when you need to operate on the network output outside of PyTorch. As a demonstration of the increased speed, I'll compare how long it takes to perform a forward and backward pass with and without a GPU.
